# Cloud - S3 - 01: Intro

## Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3)

- Objects can be almost any data file, such as documents, images or videos. 

- When you add objects to a bucket, you must give them a unique name, which is called an object key. 
    - Bucket names must be unique across all existing bucket names in Amazon S3.

- Amazon S3 is object-level storage.
- If you want to change a part of a file, you must make the change and then re-upload the entire modified file.

- Virtually unlimited storage.
- But a single object can be up to 5 TB.

- By default, your data is private, and you can optionally encrypt it.

- use case:
    - e.g. css files
    - or upload images
    - used or static assets
    - Static web hosting
    - Backup and disaster recovery (DR)

**Redundancy in Amazon S3**
- When you create a bucket in Amazon S3, it’s associated with a specific AWS `Region`.
- Whenever you store data in the bucket, 
    - it’s redundantly stored across multiple AWS facilities/`Availability zones`  in your selected Region.

**Seamless scaling**

- Amazon S3 automatically manages the storage behind your bucket even when your data grows. 

## Amazon S3 Classes

- Amazon S3 offers 6 different storage classes that are designed for different use cases.

**S3 Standard**
- Active, frequently accessed data.

**S3 Intelligent-Tiering**
- Data with changing access patterns.
- Minimum storage duration.

**S3 Standard-AI**
- Infrequently accessed data.
- Minimum storage duration and object size.

**S3 One Zone-AI**
- Active, frequently accessed data.
- Minimum storage duration and object size.
- Retrieval fee GB.

**S3 Glacier**
- Retrieval fee GB.
- Retrieval min/hours.

**S3 Glacier Deep Archive**
- Retrieval fee GB.
- Retrieval in hours.


## Pricing

1. GBs per month 
2. Transfer OUT to other Regions or to the Internet
3. PUT, COPY, POST, GET etc. requests


**You do NOT have to pay for:**

- Transfer IN to Amazon S3.
With Amazon S3, specific costs might vary, depending on the Region


To estimate Amazon S3 costs, consider the following: 

1. Storage class type
   - Select a cost-efficient storage tier which fits your use case
2. Amount of storage
   - Calculate the number and size of objects you will be storing in S3
3. Requests
   - Estimate the number requests
4. Data transfer
   - Consider the amount of data that is transferred out of AWS into another Region or to the internet.


